[Music]
the moon is the closest celestial body
to our planet so it's no wonder that
since ancient times astronomers have
been fascinated with Earth's one and
only natural satellite today modern
technology allows scientists to explore
the lunar surface from a farm and some
of their findings are outright baffling
like what is that huge and mysterious
metal mass that's just been discovered
in one of the moon's craters mm-hmm
mysterious hunk anomalous clump or
simply mass these are all the nicknames
that I have in common with this strange
object bestowed in the last couple of
months since its discovery in April 2019
so far scientists have been struggling
to explain where this giant lump of
unidentified material came from or what
it really is but let me back up and
we'll start from the beginning on the
far side of the Moon you'll find one of
the largest and oldest impact craters in
our solar system the South Pole Aitken
basin unfortunately from here on earth
you can only see its outer rim which
looks like a huge chain of mountains so
if you want to see the whole crater with
your own eyes you'll need to gear up and
head to the moon yourself on the bright
side which we are the trip would be
worth your time I bet you'd be awestruck
by the ginormous eight mile deep dent
stretching for more than 1,500 miles in
diameter and covering a quarter of the
moon's surface
astronomers are sure that this crater
appeared when an asteroid collided with
the moon around four billion years ago
and now imagine a gigantic chunk of
metal almost the size of West Virginia
as for its weight in pounds all I'll say
is this number has a string of 17-0 it
so yeah whatever it is it's huge and
this mysterious metallic mass is buried
180 miles under the moon's surface
somewhere in the middle of the South
Pole Aiken Basin
if it's so deep underground on a part of
the moon you can't even see from Earth
how did scientists manage to spot this
mass well we've got technology to thank
for that
after Grail which stands for NASA's
Gravity Recovery and interior laboratory
mission had gathered a bunch of data on
our natural satellite astronomers
started to examine this information
that's when one thing confused them the
most in one place on the moon's surface
yep it was that South Pole Aitken basin
they saw a weird change in gravity after
studying this unexpected phenomenon a
bit more they concluded that there was a
mysterious huge something weighing down
the basin floor so far researchers
haven't yet figured out the origin of
the bizarre lump but there are several
theories one of them claims that the
finding is a chunk of dense oxides which
likely appeared when the moon was just
taking the shape it has now at that time
our little satellite was still covered
with ancient oceans of magma this
humongous lump could have formed at the
final stages of its cooling however most
scientists support another theory that
the puzzling mass is a part of the
monstrosity that once created the very
South Pole akin Basin itself since the
thing is metallic it could be the iron
nickel core of the asteroid or whatever
it was that collided with the moon
several billion years ago in any case
the moon is good at keeping its secrets
and researchers still haven't come to
any final conclusion the only obvious
thing is that the basin is a great
natural laboratory where scientists can
study disastrous impact events and the
anomalous clump might tell us a lot more
about both the moon and the history of
the universe overall but wait did you
think that the massive chunk of metal
hiding deep under the moon's surface is
the only lunar mystery out there well
hang tight because I've got plenty more
when phenomenon has been perplexing
astronomers for decades since the 1950s
to be precise and that's random flashes
of light
from the surface of the Moon they even
have their own fancy nickname transient
lunar phenomenon the flashes have no
consistent pattern and occur totally at
random
sometimes astronomers observe them
several times a week and at other times
the flashes might disappear for months
some of them last just a couple of
minutes while others have gone on for
hours explanations vary from likely moon
quakes and meteors to the more bizarre
alien theories but again the mystery is
yet to be solved the good thing is that
a new telescope might shed light on
these strange flashes
it'll be pointing at the moon's surface
24/7 recording videos and taking photos
as soon as the phenomenon occurs the
telescope has been set up in an
observatory in Spain since the weather
conditions there are best for observing
the moon now a day before Apollo 11
landed on the lunar surface in 1969 the
missions command module pilot Michael
Collins reported that one area of the
moon was more illuminated than the
surrounding landscape he added that it
looked as if the region had fluorescence
to it the astronauts could clearly see a
crater and they noticed that the area
around it was weirdly bright is this
phenomenon connected with the mysterious
lunar flashes scientists are still at a
loss to this day
speaking of Apollo 11 the astronauts had
a lot of problems with the moon's dust
due to its unique texture as well as the
low gravity this dust clung to
everything even to the point of
affecting the astronauts helmet visors
and eroding their boots it turns out
that the lunar dust is dangerous for
people it's particles are incredibly
sharp and when breathed in they can
damage the brain and lungs beyond repair
now small quakes often happen on the
moon and they haven't been put down to
one cause either
some scientists believe that they're due
to the gravitational pull our planet has
on its natural satellite others claim
that when the moon's crust moves heats
up or gets hit by meteorites the seismic
vibrations occur
whatever the reason when a moonquake
happened several miles beneath the
surface
it leaves ruptures and cracks that
astronomers have even been able to
record and there's this there might be a
labyrinth of lava tunnels on the moon
astronomers have discovered a massive
cave under the lunar surface thanks to
some topography data they recently got
back around 30 miles long and 60 miles
wide the giant moon cave might be the
result of volcanic activity that
happened there about 3 billion years ago
streams of lava hardened creating a
thick hard crust on the outside but
inside it kept flowing melting the rock
and creating tunnels and caves countless
small pits in the moon's surface seem to
be openings to these underground
labyrinths if this theory gets confirmed
the tunnels could serve as a convenient
location for manned space missions as
well as a much needed water source for
astronauts now if you ever set foot on
the moon you'll immediately notice that
your shadow is much darker than it is on
earth but this isn't an unsolved mystery
on our planet the atmosphere scatters
light in such a way that even objects
that aren't in direct sunlight are still
well-lit and visible but there is no air
to scatter light on the moon so shadows
are extremely dark and sunlit areas are
exceptionally bright now don't feel bad
but the moon is abandoning us every year
its orbit moves about an inch and a half
away from our planet at this rate in 500
million years the moon will be fourteen
thousand six hundred miles further from
Earth than it is now now despite all
appearances the moon isn't a perfect
sphere it might look like that when you
glance at it hanging up there in the
night sky but in fact the moon is shaped
like an egg scientists have spent years
trying to understand what forces helped
mold such an unusual form one of the
theories is that the moon's center of
mass is a bit closer to Earth and it's
geometric center which could have
stretched it out to its egg-like shape
or it could have been laid by a giant
space chicken
or not and finally how about this
some scientists don't even agree that
the moon is Earth's satellite first
being around 1/4 the size of our planet
the crater pock thing is just too big to
be our moon besides it technically be
incorrect to say that the moon orbits
the earth in fact the dynamic duo sort
of orbit each other kind of like when
two people hold hands and spin around
together
but since the barycenter which in
astronomy is the point a celestial
object orbits around is located within
the earth we feel as if the moon is
orbiting our planet now have you heard
about any other secrets the moon is
keeping from us let me know down in the
comments if you learned something new
today then get this video a like and
share it with a friend
but hey don't go moonwalking just yet we
have over 2,000 cool videos for you to
check out all you have to do is pick the
left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life